The purpose of this project is to classify a graph with respect to the
property of intrinsic knotting.  The following are required in order to 
proceed:
  - A C compiler is required to be in your environment PATH
  - ruby and rdoc is required to be in your environment PATH
  - java, javac and javadoc are required to be in your environment PATH
  - ant build tool is required to be in your environment PATH
  - an internet connection is required to download the nauty toolset
  
Once you have confirmed that you meet these minimum requirements, run the 
'tools/installer' program to build the appropriate binaries, graphs
and documentation.

Upon successful completion of this, you are free to use the tools in the
'tools' directory.  In order to classify a set of graphs using the Ruby
implementation, issue the following command:

tools/ik_classifier -f graphs/connected_graphs_7.txt

Be sure to explore the options for some of the tools by issuing the 
command option --help to the tool.  For example:

tools/ik_classifier --help

The following tools are included:

expansion_mapper
  Prints a list of all of the expansions of each of the graphs with respect 
  to each other. Takes a list of graphs as an argument and looks at each graph
  with respect to all of the other graphs. The tool determines which graphs in
  the supplied list of graphs are minors and expansions of each other.
  
graph_complementor
  Prints the complements to the specified graphs in a form that can be 
  interpreted by many of the other tools. This tool can be used to pick out 
  only certain graphs from a file of many graphs.
  
graph_finder
  Prints the specified graphs in a form that can be interpreted by many of the
  other tools. This tool can be used to pick out only certain graphs from a 
  file of many graphs.
  
graph_generator
  Generates listings of all of the connected graphs on the given number of 
  vertices. The graph listings are in a form that can be interpreted by many 
  of the other tools.
  
ik_classifier
  Classifies the supplied graphs with respect to the property of intrinsic 
  knotting using the Ruby implementation. The results of the classification
  efforts will be printed to standard output or the supplied output file.
  
ik_summarizer
  Summarizes the results from a run of ik_classifier or java_ik_classifier. 
  The summary will include classification results, as well as timing results 
  in a succinct presentation.
  
installer
  Installs the necessary binaries and creates the needed files and directories
  in order for the tools to work. This must be run before using any of the 
  other tools.
  
java_ik_classifier
  Uses the Java code to classify the supplied graphs with respect to the 
  property of intrinsic knotting.  This is the only tool that references the 
  Java code.  (If the more robust options of ik_classifier are desired which 
  allow the edges to be specified or specific graphs, then first run those 
  options through graph_finder and write the results to a file.  Feed that 
  file into the java_ik_classifier with the -f option.)